Hello and welcome to Machine Learning with Python. In this course you'll learn how Machine Learning is 
used in many key fields and industries. For example, in the healthcare industry, data scientists use 
Machine Learning to predict whether a human cell that is believed to be at risk of developing cancer is 
either benign or malignant. As such, Machine Learning can play a key role in determining a person's 
health and welfare. You'll also learn about the value of decision trees and how building a good decision 
tree from historical data helps doctors to prescribe the proper medicine for each of their patients.
You'll learn how bankers use Machine Learning to make decisions on whether to approve loan applications; 
and you will learn how to use Machine Learning to do bank customer segmentation, where it is not usually 
easy to run for huge volumes of varied data. In this course you'll see how machine learning helps
websites such as YouTube, Amazon, or Netflix develop recommendations to their customers about various
products or services, such as which movies they might be interested in going to see or which books to buy.
There is so much that you can do with Machine Learning. Here you'll learn how to use popular Python
libraries to build your model. For example, given an automobile data set, we can use the scikit-learn 
library to estimate the co2 emission of cars using their engine size or cylinders. We can even predict 
what the co2 emissions will be for a car that hasn't even been produced yet, and we'll see how the 
telecommunications industries can predict customer churn.You can run and practice the code of all these 
samples using the built-in lab environment in this course, you don't have to install anything to your 
computer or do anything on the cloud. All you have to do is click a button to start the lab environment 
in your browser. The code for the samples is already written using Python language in Jupyter notebooks 
and you can run it to see the results or change it to understand the algorithms better. So what will you 
be able to achieve by taking this course? Well, by putting in just a few hours a week over the next few 
weeks you'll get new skills to add to your resume such as regression, classification, clustering,
scikit-learn, and psy PI. You'll also get new projects that you can add to your portfolio including 
cancer detection, predicting economic trends, predicting customer churn, recommendation engines, 
and many more. You'll also get a certificate in Machine Learning to prove your competency and share it 
anywhere you like online or offline such as LinkedIn profiles and social media, so let's get started. 
#########